The President:
At the end of September,
if Congress doesn't act,
funding for our roads
and bridges will expire.
This would put a stop to highway
construction, bridge repair,
mass transit systems and other
important projects that keep our
country moving
quickly and safely.
And it would affect thousands of
construction workers and their
families who depend on the jobs
created by these projects to
make ends meet.
Now, usually renewing this
transportation bill is
a no-brainer.
In fact, Congress has renewed it
seven times over the last two
years, but thanks to political
posturing in Washington,
they haven't been able to extend
it this time and the clock's
running out.
Allowing this bill to expire
would be a disaster for our
infrastructure and our economy.
Right away, over 4,000 workers
would be furloughed without pay.
If it's delayed
for just 10 days,
we will lose nearly $1 billion
in highway funding that we can
never get back.
And if we wait even longer,
almost one million workers could
be in danger of losing their
jobs over the next year.
These are serious consequences
and the pain will be felt all
across the country.
In Virginia, 19,000 jobs
are at risk; in Minnesota,
more than 12,000;
and in Florida,
over 35,000 people could be out
of work if Congress doesn't act.
That makes no sense and
it's completely avoidable.
There's no reason to put more
jobs at risk in an industry that
has been one of the hardest
hit in this recession.
There's no reason to cut off
funding for transportation
projects at a time when so many
of our roads are congested,
so many of our bridges are in
need of repair and so many
businesses are feeling
the cost of delays.
This isn't a Democratic
or a Republican issue.
It's an American issue.
That's why, last week, I was
joined at the White House by
representatives from the AFL-CIO
and the Chamber of Commerce --
two groups who don't
see eye to eye on much,
but who agree that it's
critically important for our
economy that Congress act now.
That's also why 128
mayors, from both parties,
wrote to Congress asking them
to come together and pass a
clean extension.
These are local leaders who are
on the ground every day and who
know what would happen to
their communities if Congress
fails to act.
So I'm calling on Congress,
as soon as they get back,
to pass a clean extension of
the transportation bill to keep
workers on the job, keep
critical projects moving forward
and to give folks a
sense of security.
There's a lot of talk in
Washington these days about
creating jobs, but it doesn't
help when those same folks turn
around and risk losing hundreds
of thousands of jobs just
because of political
gamesmanship.
We need to pass this
transportation bill and put
people to work
rebuilding America.
We need to put our differences
aside and do the right thing for
our economy.
And now is the time to act.